[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: The element that was
clicked on is an atag right which has
an href in it.
And that href is the URL that
we want to load, we want
to load that file up we essentially
want to make an Ajax request for
that file get its contents and
stuff it into a model.
So I can get the URL by looking at
the element that was clicked on,
which is going to be evt.target,
that's the link that we clicked on.
And I want to jQueryify that element
because I want helpers for it.
So I'm just gonna wrap $ for
in to see around that element and
I want to get it's href
attribute in the way
we do that in JavaScript is .attr("href").
Just double check myself
against the solution file here.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
so now I have the URL,
jQuery has a nice simple syntax for
doing Ajax.
If you don't want to type this part
you're free to kind of just copy and
paste it which is what I'm going to
do because I don't want to type it.
So you can copy and paste from
the solutions file if you'd like but
this is how we do an Ajax call.
I'm giving it the URL and I'm telling it
that I'm expecting to get back text, so
that it doesn't do any parsing and
this dot then is basically
how I specify my callback.
>> Speaker 2: Just wondering why
you didn't use prevent default?
>> Kyle Simpson: We did
use prevent default but
the question is why did
I do the other two?
We don't have to do the other
two in this example,
I just did it because
there's a habit that I do.
Like I call all three of those
usually just by habit but
in our particular situation, we actually
don't care about the propagation.
We only care about stopping
the default behavior so
it would be acceptable if
you didn't put them in.
>> Kyle Simpson: So once I've loaded
the contents up as an Ajax request,
remember that looks exactly
like we did before.
There's an Ajax call and I get a callback
then I get some contents back.
Now I need to add that to my modal.
So we don't have this variable yet,
but we can declare this variable and
have that variable point at the modal,
that's going to be our last step.
We wanna declare a variable
called modal and
we wanna get at it the same way
we get it any other variable,
didn't understand the URL line, okay?
The first thing is to get
the element that was clicked on,
that's what evt.target is and
then the link,
the A tag that we clicked on we
want to get its href attribute.
When you get the value
of the href attribute.
>> Kyle Simpson: So in our index that
would be getting as register.html or
the login.html,
that's the value we want to get.
Okay, so
how are we going to get a reference to
the modal that we want to click on?
Or I mean that we want to add content to?
Other we get reference so
that we come to our markup and
we find that there's a modal
there with real js-modal.
So we get it exactly
the same way we're getting
the other ones which is
to say rel=js-modal.
>> Kyle Simpson: I have a stylistic
convention that you see on line three.
Which is that any variable that
I declare in my code which
points at a jQuery object.
I always prefix my variable
names with dollar signs,
just to make it clear that
I'm dealing with a jQuery.
>> Speaker 3: There's nothing actually
special about the dollar sign, is there?
>> Kyle Simpson: Not in variable names,
there is not, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: There's
the few questions there.
Could we have used $this?
You didn't cover that question?
>> Kyle Simpson: I didn't
covered that question,
the question is basically if I do
need to do event the target or
could I have used this.
You do not want to use dollar sign thus,
I know that many people are familiar with
and have seen that in a lot of places,
it is not as reliable as you would expect.
In our particular case
it would have worked but
there are lots of other cases
where the event propagation
that is the bubbling stuff where
it doesn't point at what you want.
jQuery make sure that event the target
always points at the thing
that got clicked on.
So it's a reliable parameter and that's
why I always use it out of that habit.
>> Speaker 2: The question is,
is .NET native to JS?
>> Kyle Simpson: This
is part of the jQuery,
let's talk then that's happening here,
that's part of just crazy.
>> Speaker 2: So
you're saying that that's not a promise.
>> Kyle Simpson: jQuery is
not using real promise.
jQuery is doing their own version of
stuff that looks a little bit like
a promise, but isn't.
The other question is our native
promises coming to JavaScript?
Yes, they are coming to us six.
It's just that these are not made of
promises so the dot then that you see
there looks like it's a native promise,
but it's actually just a jQuery API.
>> Kyle Simpson: I might've lost some
of you already even though I walked you
through it, and that's totally okay.
Don't feel frustrated and
walk away, walk out on me.
The point that I'm making here
is that we're already using
some of the concepts that we talked
about in our earlier course.
For example, we're passing in
a callback function, all right.
So if I just hid all of the contents
of Johnny's a little trick in sublime.
That does code folding, okay.
So I just hit it temporarily,
I'll bring it back in a minute but
if you look at this function.
I mean if you look at this dollar sign
is a function, on is a function and
if you look at the parameters that
are being passed to the on call.
There is three parameters being passed,
one of which is a function that
we passed and it's a callback.
Exactly like passing a callback
into a set timeout or
passing a call back
into any other utility.
We're passing a call back,
we're asking for
this callback to be invoked, to be run.
Whenever somebody clicks on a link,
it's not going to happen right away.
They're going to wait a few seconds and
we want it to happen whenever it does.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
so you're back here.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
so if we Save this file and
we reload our page to Refresh our page.
If I didn't mess something
up now when I click Login,
it pops up a modal with
the login contents in it.
Now I don't have any close buttons or
whatever we do that later in the exercise.
So right now we just pop up a modal but
if I Refresh and obviously it
refreshes the page and goes away.
If I click Register I get
the register page loaded.
So that's the step that you should be at
is being able to load that content and
put it in a modal.
P-R-O-P-A-G.
>> Kyle Simpson: The good news is [LAUGH]
if this was complicated and you got lost
or you feel a little bit intimidated
by this, which is totally okay.
The first time I saw code like
this I was lost, trust me.
If this is complicated to you,
the good news is that this is about as
complex as jQuery programming gets.
I started you off with
an example that kind of,
it shows a lot of
different pieces moving in.
Pulling in an element from the dom,
that's what this first call is doing.
This is pulling in an element from
the dom by its rel attribute,
the same thing we did with modal.
Calling a method on that chain, calling
.on and giving it several parameters,
making an Ajax call setting the inner html
of those contents, showing an element.
This is basically like 80% of what people
do with jQuery in this one little snippet.
So even though it may feel like while this
is kind of like, overwhelming or whatever.
If you take some time to digest just this
one file you've actually probably got
the same amount of skills as
50% of jQuery developers have.
>> Kyle Simpson: And the other thing
to note is that we didn't do anything
tricky with JavaScript itself.
99% of the complexity that we see
in this file is jQuery related,
not JavaScript related.
So if you spend time to
learn a tool like jQuery,
like I've taken time to learn, then you
can sling about the jQuery stuff, and
it just works and
the same is true of JavaScript.
If you learn the JavaScript fundamentals,
you can sling JavaScript around and
you won't get confused.
So this is just another thing to learn,
it's a jQuery library that's helpful.
It makes the code to do this
without jQuery would be worse.
So even though it may look ugly it's
better than it would have been.
Question here,
why not using a comma role js controls?
You totally could have done it that way,
I don't like to use tag names or IDs.
I try to avoid dom specific things like
what tag name was used or whatever.
So that's why I would avoid using A but
there's lots of different ways to use the
jQuery API, this is just one of several.
>> Kyle Simpson: What else did you work
on after header dodginess I didn't.
The only code that we've changed
right now so far as header.js.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yup,
header.js is all we touched, okay.
Any questions here about
stuff I can clear up for you.
It would have been rather cruel of me to
expect you to just know all this stuff
that's why I walked you through it.
Fortunately, the next thing that I'm
gonna ask you to do is going to be
a bit simpler.
It's gonna build off of some of the stuff,
you wanna have your file in that state.
If you don't want to retype
all that stuff, just copy and
paste that whole file from.
>> Kyle Simpson: Over there,
which is totally fine if
you want to do it that way.